imagine I'm talking directly to you and
I say I'm judging you what do you want
to say right
now well what do you want to say I bet
it wasn't like hey let's hang out I bet
it was more like go screw yourself Joe
in this video we're going to talk about
three ways that can help you stop being
judgmental my name is Joe Hudson I'm a
former venture capitalist and now I'm a
coach for some of the most notable names
in Silicon Valley so here's something to
know about being judgmental it hurts
physically emotionally it hurts to be
judgmental there's a little bit of a
payoff it's like an addiction right
where there's some part of you that gets
to feel better than the other person but
it hurts because it requires you to
literally constrict your muscles you
have to like clench down to judge
somebody else so that's why it's so
important to know ways to stop judging
people and there's three ways that we're
going to talk about in this video the
first one is stop judging yourself which
is even more painful the second one is
feel the feelings that are underneath
the judgment and the third one is get
really clear on the results that you
want in your life and see how judgment
just doesn't let those results happen
Okay let's get into it so here's the
deal if you see somebody judging you you
know that they are judging themselves 10
times harder than they're judging you
that every day they're living in a mind
that just judges all the time and it's
some point it's always judging them and
you could think for a second hey this
person is judging people and it makes
them feel better than everybody else but
you'll notice people who are really
judgmental and the more judgmental that
they are the less they actually feel
good about themselves and so that's how
we know that when you're being
judgmental you're actually judging
yourself and that usually means that the
internal voice in the head is saying
things like you should do that you
shouldn't do this what's wrong with you
why don't you work harder blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah and it just makes us
feel uh depressed and stagnant and
horrible and so if you really want to
stop judging other people the first
person to start with is yourself and
that leads us to the second thing the
second thing is to feel the emotions
underneath the Judgment this one's hard
for people to see but once you see it oh
my goodness it'll set you free so let me
give you an example every time you are
judging somebody I am judging you for
being late for instance there's an
emotion underneath it that I don't want
to feel oh I don't want to feel
abandoned I don't want to feel left
alone or or I'm judging you for uh not
working hard enough and it's like oh I I
don't want to feel like I am alone in
the world I don't want to feel like all
the responsibil is on me I don't want to
feel angry that you have abandon me
whatever it is there's some emotion that
you don't want to feel underneath and
all the judgment is doing is stopping
you from feeling that emotion it's like
an emotional Backwater it's an Eddy
where the same emotion goes around and
around and there's no fluidity and
because there's no fluidity here's what
can't show up Joy what can't show up is
happiness and so a really cool trick
whether you're judging someone else or
you're judging yourself every time you
judge say what is it that I don't want
to feel right
now and then feel it you don't have to
feel it for a long time you just have to
pay attention to your body 10 seconds
feel it and you'll start to see that all
of your judgment is just there to
protect you from feeling the deeper
emotions the scarier emotion and then
when you feel that deeper and scarier
emotion what you find out is it's not
that scary it's actually kind of cool
once you move them and they move and
then you feel free not stagnant open and
a lot more joy and a lot more happiness
this one is an amazing tool I can't tell
you how many people that I know who I've
given this tool to have completely
transformed their lives because when you
start allowing those emotions to move
and you feel them instead of stagnating
them in judgment what happens is is
there's so much more joy and so many
more people want to be around you and
that positivity allows you to see all
sorts of solutions that are different
and so you'll notice that the people who
are judgmental towards themselves and
towards each other not only are they
emotionally stagnant and kind of getting
more and more depressed and more and
more g g g g g in their life you'll also
notice that their lives aren't changing
they're not growing they're not
transforming it's this crazy stagnation
just think about it think about the
person yelling at their tele ision and
judgment all day how's their life
changing what's moved nothing there's
this big stagnant rot and so when I've
seen these people in my life who started
feeling the feelings underneath their
judgment change happens and it happens
really quickly so let's get into the
third thing and the third thing seems so
simple seems like it wouldn't be
effective but it's crazy effective and
it's just be clear about what you want
so if you want people around around you
who are kind of then great be judgmental
if you want people to basically reject
you then great be judgmental let me give
you an example of what I'm talking about
I'm going to tell you something right
now imagine I'm talking directly to you
and I say I'm judging you what do you
want to say right
now well what do you want to say I bet
it wasn't like hey let's hang out I bet
it was more like go screw yourself Joe
right that's what happens and people
know when you're judging them don't
don't pretend that if you're silent
about your judgment they don't know it
of course they know it the facial
expression the body language it tell
somebody if you're judging them and so
what you're basically doing is saying
like I'm going to make it so you don't
want to be around me I'm going to make
it so you don't want to buy from me I'm
going to make it so that you don't want
to be a part of my company I'm going to
make it so that you don't want to marry
me I'm going to make it so that you
don't want to date me that's what you're
saying so if that's what you want great
be
judgmental look at the results of your
judgment look at how happy it's making
you look at who it's inviting into your
life yeah you get that short high of
feeling better it's the kind of high
that you get from like scrolling all the
time it feels good for a bit and then it
makes you feel like and so if you
want to feel like then judge all
you want but if you don't want to feel
like just notice how judgment makes
you feel and notice what kind of life
you want don't make it into a should cuz
that's just another judgment don't tell
yourself you shouldn't judge that's
another judgment then you're judging
yourself all you have to do is just
notice the pain just notice what you
want and allow yourself to go in that
direction it's as easy as that so those
are three ways that you can really
interrupt the pattern of being
judgmental but I have a warning for you
and the warning is when you stop being
judgmental and you allow these emotions
in eventually you're going to have to
let love in and love is sometimes the
scariest emotion of them all because
when you really allow love in there's a
way for you to really hurt there's a way
for you to really have heartbreak now
that heartbreak oddly will only increase
your capacity to love if it happens but
I can see how scary it can be and so
just know as you drop that judgment just
slowly take care of yourself and allow
that love in it's going to feel immense
it's going to feel scary but eventually
it's going to feel like
home all right if you like the video
please subscribe or write in the
comments anything that you would like us
to make videos on and if you want to
watch the next video here it is